>> Mike: And we're gonna go over the last
topic of the day which is writing
our own Sass functions.
This is the most advanced we're
going to get into the Sass world.
So the function declaration lets
us define things that take in
values in a similar way that we're used
to seeing mix ins receive arguments.
Except that this has a return declaration
that lets us return a value based on
the calculation of the inputs and
potentially bringing globals
into it as well, right?
So if there were a global variable,
like in this case.
I've got w, I might use that
inside double, I totally could.
In this case I'm not.
In this case this is like a pure function.
The outputs are strictly
expressed in terms of inputs.
And you see here you get
the expected result.
So here I can define my own function.
This one's a little pointless cuz I
could just do 2x next to both of these
width usages.
Or next to the one on the bottom,
I should say.
But let's look at another one.
So this I've made up something that's
a little bit convoluted but interesting.
So I tried to make something that would
find the biggest color channel of
a color and then give you back something
that had that same channel value on
the maximum one and
then reduce the other two to 0.
So if you give me something with a lot of
blue in it, I would give you something
that had the same blue value,
with red and green to zero.
So you can see, I use the SASS
color functions red, green, and
blue to extract the color channels.
Then I use if to try to find if we're in
a situation where r is the biggest or
g is the biggest,
otherwise I assume blue is the biggest.
And I return a color with that
highest channel value and
the other two channels at zero.
And the way you could use this is the same
way we've been using our Sass functions
that come with the library itself.
And so here, I'm passing in a blue,
something that has a lot of red in it and
then a green.
And you can see if you can
read the SASS values here,
you can see that it ends up creating
something that is only blue,
only red and only green with the other
two channels being reduced to zero.